the bill that strengthens the
best-known public order safeguard
as hinzpeter law that was presented
during the year 2011 during the
student mobilizations has like
object create new crimes ie
typifying facts that are not really
constitutive of crimes nor can they be
in any democratic country all this with
the purpose of criminalizing the protest
social policy in Chile- the typification of
behaviors and facts of which the
social movements are valid from
history revolutions mean
a huge social and political regression
human makes us return to being subjects in
instead of citizens is to return to
17th century at least the
fines laid down in article 262 of the
penal code to apply deprivation
of freedom to the attacks against the
authority
what are the attacks against
authority against carabineros styles
mainly
they are currently sanctioned
with this new law will be sanctioned with
minor presidio in its middle grade is
say 341 days
to 3 years in prison is to say that
people who attack police officers
during the mobilizations
will be sanctioned with this penalty of
prison to which I referred
previously
we all know that carabiner in a
attack with chemical weapons
mainly with almost the image and
many times they have done it already
with balines dogs
etc
but nevertheless attacking a carabinero
even if it is with a trick will be
penalized with jail that sanctions
all who participate insist
encourage or promote any type of
disorder or act of violence paralyze or
interrupt some public service
invade or loot homes or any
place either private or municipal public
prevent
free movement of vehicles or
people on the streets bridges roads
or any other good for public use
who incite encourage promote or
Participate participate is to attend a
mobilization
to promote or encourage is to convene
the mobilizations can not be done the
group on facebook or create events in
facebook all that be penalized with
jail as the law does not say
specifically that what it comes down to
what does it mean that incite
promo to comment or participate could
eventually do all this what is
has penalized as it has happened in
other countries
besides trying to apply the greater penalty
with all the cases of attacks on the
authority or that the person the accused
there is no state face discovered or there
used any any element
that retards even the identification of
your identity what does this mean
what
are penalizing the use of any
element to deal with the identification of
the identity that makes this difficult may
be costumes wigs like people
often drawn the lens protests
dark or a handkerchief to cover the
tear gas bombs because put
breathe i
all this will be penalized this seems
much more the law of detention by
suspicion
that was repealed but clearly now
seeks to be corrected and expanded
In addition, the project aims to
amendments to the criminal procedure code
with the most important modification and
pretend to do in this case is in
relationship
when it is declared when the court
declares the detention illegal or refuses or
revokes preventive detention
this resource allows the prosecutor
interpose a relationship resource
currently the legal procedure
prevents interposing resources to relation in
these cases when the incidence that
this project is in this article
example if a person is arrested in
a manifestation
in arbitrary form
he was detained all day
in the comisary
it is formalized and at the time of
formalization the prosecutor requests that the
court applies preventive detention in
against that person but the court
he denies it because he considers that
because a person who was arrested in
a protest
what for
and unseating for example
it was not a danger to society
but what is happening
the prosecutor appeals with the sole fact of
appeal the accused will be stopped
until the appeal is resolved
appeal to a higher court and that
It may take several days
besides that this bill
I wanted to make other modifications
in the criminal procedural code that the
President of the Republic indicated
suppress but even so although it has
made this indication in a project
of law it is important to note that it is
what you wanted to do because it's very serious
that a project of
law that you have to live this
there are certain actions that perform the
pd and carabineros de chile
that do not need authorization or the
fiscal or the judge is to say that they can
do on your own are the are
the actions performed by the PDA and
Carabineros without authorization
previous within these actions the
project proposed that it could be
seize
everything that was filming
Photographs
audios and even sounds of facts that
were constituting a crime '
as for example what does this mean
if people are filming by
example with cell in the protests if
is certain situations that are happening
he has goes in everything and get carabineros
From Chile
and remove the camera or cell phone at
people who are signing this is
extremely serious because it attempts against
the right of press freedom that
is to apply censorship in addition in our
country have turned around the world
through social networks our images
of police abuse that have occurred in
chile during the student movement
and also during the protests in them
in aysén finally this bill
included the state of faults that allows
the arrest against every person
that disobeys the orders that are
giving the authority to enforce and
be able to maintain public order ie
that equals anything that's very
broad lends itself to whatever it is so
so many arrests that currently
they are illegal that currently the law
considered as arbitrary they are no longer going to
be considered as arbitrary
that the police and the apparatus
jurisdictional
to be formally prepared for
condemn in addition to people do not be
not only that abuse is allowed
police that is already allowed but that
even legally allows even
large scale but this will allow
also that the jurisdictional apparatus
be used to condemn the
people for political events by
political behaviors due to the fact
defend our rights and fight to
this this is something very serious that we
as citizens we can not afford